Okay so Java is an object
oriented programming language.
And objects are structures
which contain data in the form
of fields also known as variables,
as well as behavior in
the form of methods, so fields and
methods, data behavior.
All right, we use classes to
define the makeup of an object.
So we're gonna create our first, well, not
our first class, but we're gonna create
our first class that represents an object
that's gonna be used as a template.
All right, so this is going to describe
the fields in the methods of a rectangle.
So we're gonna go to the IDE, and
let's create a new package called objects.
And we'll create a new class
inside of here called rectangle.
Okay, so if we were to think about some
fields that a rectangle would have,
some characteristics,
we might say something like a length.
We could have a width.
And then our rectangle has sides, right?
So we could even declare
that it's four sides.
All right, so
these would be the fields for a rectangle.
If we wanted to define behaviors,
then we could do something
like calculate the perimeter.
So we could say double
calculate perimeter, okay?
And perimeter is what?
Two times the length,
2 times length plus 2 times width
So this is now a behavior, right?
You can calculate the perimeter or
maybe we can calculate the area.
And that one could be just
the length times the width.
All right, so this is a class
with both fields and behaviors.
We could do things like create nice
little objects based on this class.
Now notice here we don't
have anything like,
any access modifiers on the fields or
the methods, meaning private words.
I wanna talk about encapsulation a bit.
So Java has four core principles for
object oriented programming.
Encapsulation is one of them,
what encapsulation prescribes
is that all of the data in the behavior
is contained within the object itself.
So given an object, I can do what
I need to do with that object.
And it says to expose the behavior, so
that would be the methods and
restrict direct access to the data.
So that would be the fields.
So we don't really want
these fields just left like
this without an access modifier
because then they're protected.
People can directly access these fields.
What we wanna do is, add a private access
modifier in front of all of the fields.
And then for the methods, this is the
behavior we do want to expose the methods,
right unless there was
a good reason not to, right?
So if you had a method in a class,
that it was only specific to this class is
some sort of process method that you
don't want people to directly call.
You could put a private there, if it's
something that you're making so that
people can call into it and it's useful
for them, you will make that public.
So, we'll make our behaviors public and
our data,
our fields private, and
we've just encapsulated this class.
All right, so that's what
encapsulation means in a nutshell.
>> I have a question about private.
>> Yeah.
>> In the past,
I've read about stuff like people doing,
bad actors doing like field ejection or
to manipulate stuff that's going on in
a program in a way that they shouldn't.
Would this private
keyword be used like for
protecting stuff like that as
an example or is that different?
>> It's different so, what you're
describing is more like the input.
>> So when we accept that input, we
would wanna make sure that it was clean.
And that they haven't put any
sort of sequel injection or
anything like that in there.
This is for example, you wanna
control how people utilize the data.
So you would provide the methods,
the behavior that allows them to do it.
But you wouldn't want people to
directly change the value of in
objects field, for example.
So you allow this with
what's called getter and
setter methods also call accessor methods,
mutator methods.
So we need to add those to this
class cause right now people
have no way to determine, what is length
or set the width in some kind of way.
So we wanna provide them ways
of doing that without them
directly saying rectangle.length
equals whatever, okay?
So to do that, we wanna add getter and
setter methods for all of
the fields that you want people to be able
to get information on or set in some way.
So to do that,
I'm going to do a little trick.
If you're in IntelliJ,
you can right click,
because it's a lot of boilerplate code,
and if you go to generate.
Select the fourth option, getter and
setter, and then you can select
the fields that you want getter and
setter methods generated for.
And then notice they've created them for
me.
So the getLength is just
gonna return the length,
setLength will accept the length,
and then, set it.
Notice this keyword, is on line 22,
we had this.length equals length.
What does that mean?
Remember, variables are local and
scope, right?
So, we have length here as
the perameter name, but
then we also have a global
variable called length.
So what this is saying is
set the global variable,
the length that belongs to this class,
set that variable equal to
my local variable length.
That's what that means, all right?
Same for width and same for sides.
And then that really gives
us that encapsulated object.
>> So you said that this is the global?
>> Yes, this, so that means the variable
that belongs to this class.
So this will give you the global instance,
and then this will be the local one.